Decide collects the version information of the components in ﬁve DL stack layers. Decide can detect which environment is used by “echo $CONDA_PREFIX” If this command outputs a non-empty path of a conda environment, then it is a native environment. Depending on the lo-                cal environment, Decide will invoke diﬀerent system commands to gather version information. In the current implementation, we focus on 48 popular DL stackcomponents in the ﬅve layers. These components are described in Section 4.2 and a complete list can be found in the SupplementaryMaterial. For each required DL stack component, Decides checks if it is installed in the local ma-chine and infers the correct version of the dependency. To infer the correct ver-apologetic version of a dependency, Deciders extracts packagenames speciﬁed in the import statements and extracts them in the ASTs. The current implementation of Decides only extracts the version Information of the popular system li-ipientbraries described in Sections 4.1-4. Decide is able to detect and report version incompatibilities within 1 minute without using GPU. Decide can be used to test the accuracy of the pre-trained QA model. The research was conducted at the FSE in San Francisco, California, December 3–9, 2023. The paper is published in the open-source journal, "Deep Learning and Machine Learning," and is available on the arXiv.com/2013/12071. It is the first of its kind to be published by a major academic journal in the field of deep learning. The study was published on the eve of FSE’s 23rd annual conference, which took place from December 3-9, 2013, at the University of California, San Francisco. For more information, visit FSE ’23, December 17-19, and FSE.com’ 23, December 20, 2013. The full paper is available at FSE 2013, and can be downloaded from the arxiv.org/2013-12061. Decide is capable of detecting version issues across all layers in a DL stack. PyEGo and Watchman can de-tect version issues in at most two layers (i.e., library and runtime) Both tools do not contain knowledge related to hardware drivers in their knowledgebase, so they ignore this issue or report the latest library version. Figure 6 shows the number of version issues detected by Decide, Watchman, and PyEgo. Decide re-lies on version knowledge extracted from thousands of SO posts, which is more comprehensive and up-to-date than the sources of Watchman andPyEGo. The version issues reported by Watchman will be used to compare with the ground truth. We used the public webinterface of WatchMan from its oﬃcial website for evalua-tion. Overall, Decide achieves a 68.7% precision and 64.7%. We compared the inferred versions of requiredcomponents with the versions of locally installed components to detect version issues. UniﬁedQA received 5,532 queries (i.e., a question and a paragraph from SO) to pre-dict compatibility relations between two DL components. We randomly sampled 360 of these queries to evaluate the accuracy of the knowledge graph produced by Decide. The model achieved 84.2% precision and 91.3% recall on these 360 queries. There are three reasons for incorrect predictions. 12% of the incorrect predictions were because UniﬃedQ a misunderstood the question. 9% were due to incorrect versionknowledge shared in the original SO post. Among eight question templates, Q7 (i.,e., “DoesA work with B?”) achieves the best performance. We also experimented with three combination strategies to check if they indeed improve the model accuracy in our approach. For each question template, we found that using diﬀerent combination strategies improved the model’s accuracy when using the question template. We found that combining the question templates found that the model found the answer with the lowest loss value. Combining Q1 and Q2 achieves the best performance (84.2% precision and 91.3% recall) Using a single question does not always lead to better performance. We found that ChatGPT achieves a decent recall (70.5%) compared to the benchmark (72.6%) on the benchmark. We demonstrate the feasibility of leveraging pre-trained QA mod-tesqueels to extract version compatibility knowledge from online discus-                sions. We propose a pipeline for generating a large-scaleand high-quality knowledge graph. For now, Decide only builds the knowledge graph from SO posts concerning DL projects’ version issues. Future re- Devinsearchers can extend this knowledge graph by adding more diverse SO posts, such as detecting version incompatibility issues in Java projects by extending the knowledge graphs to SO posts about the Java ecosystem. For more information, see Decide’s Knowledge Consolidation Design and the Decide Knowledge Graph, available on GitHub. ChatGPT may still generate hallucinated knowledge, which prevents it from ac-curately identifying version issues in DL projects. Decide can only detect version incompatibilities with-out automatically repairing the version issues. The knowledge consolidation process needs to be redesigned to merge knowledge extracted from diﬀerent types of documents while accounting for their credibility, recency, and popularity. There is a large body of literature on version Incompatibility Detection de-tection. We believe it is promising direction to improve Decide performance by substi-tuting UniﬁedQA with ChatGPT. We plan to investigate e-ective repair strategies based on the knowledge graph. We hope to publish our findings in the next issue of the journal Deep Learning and Machine Learning (DCL) (http://www.deeplearning.org/blog/2013/12/23/deep-learning-and-machine-learning.html#storylink=cpy. For confidential support, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. Snif-ferDog constructs an API bank that maps APIs to diﬀerent versions of Python packages. Decide uses a pre-trained QA model to extract version compatibility knowledge from online discussions. The knowledge is collected from documents such as PyPI and the Python oﬃcial website. The evaluation resultsdemonstrate that our approach can extract version knowledge with.84% accuracy and can accurately identify 65% of known version is- ARTICLE-sues in 10 popular DL projects with a 92% precision. The authors would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments. This research was part supported by anAmazon Research Award and a Cisco ResearchREFERENCES Award and Cisco Research Award in 2022 in the area of deep learning and machine learning. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details. In the U.S. call the National Suicide Prevention Line on 1-800-273-8255. A study on challenges in deploying deep learn-ing based software. An Empirical Study of the Dependency Networks of Deep Learning Li-Huang Li and Tianyi Zhang. Dockerizeme: Automatic en-enviable code snippets for python code snippets. A comprehensive study on the challenges of deploying deep learning-based software. A review of the history of the use of dependency analysis in software development. A study of the role of dependency graphs in the development of deep learning systems. An analysis of the impact of dependency on the performance of a deep learning system. A new approach to the problem of predicting upgrade failures usingdependency analysis. A report on the development and deployment of deep-learning systems in the cloud. An overview of the work on deep learning in the open-source software community and its impact on the software industry. A look at some of the recent developments in the field of computer science and software engineering in the form of a paper on “Deep Learning in the Cloud’s Future” A context-oriented programming approach to dependency hell. Stereo r-cnn based 3d objectdetection for autonomous driving. Python Natural Language Processing Toolkit for Many Human Languages. Fixingdependency errors for Python build reproducibility. The next generation of the Apache Software Foundation’s open-source software development toolkit, the Apache 2.0 “Apache 6.0”, will be released later this year. It will be the first version of the software to run on the next-generation Apache software development kit (Apache 4.0) and the next version of Apache 3.5 ‘Apache 3’ will be available in the spring of 2019. It is the second version of this article to be published on the Apache Software Foundation website. The previous version was published on November 14, 2018. It was the first of a two-part series on the future of software engineering. The second part of the series is published on December 6, 2018, and is titled ‘The Future of Software Engineering’. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language models. Extracting CarbuncleAPI tips from developer question and answer websites. Zero-shot.information extraction via chatting with chatgpt. An API Learn-Experienced Developers Based on Knowledge Graph Graph for Inexperienced Developers based on Deep Learning for Deep Learning. A way to predict semantically linkable knowledge in developer online forums via a neural network. A new way to extract information from the PyEGo/PyEGoGitHub Repository Repository. A tool to help developers understand how to use the Go Go API to search for information in the Go search engine. A better way to make it easier for people to search the Go web for information about a given language. A more efficient way to find out about a language’s features and features that may not be available to all users at the time of the search, such as the ability to search by key word or key word length, and a way to get information from a search engine to users’ search history.