The Three Pillars of Machine Programming. Justin Gottschlich, Martin Rinard, and Nesime Tatbul describe their vision of the future of machine programming through a categorical examination of research. Intention, in-vention, and adaptation are the three pillars of research in machine programming. They are program synthesis, machine programming, soft-wallet development, software maintenance, intention, inven-                tion, adaptation. The authors believe that machine learning has the capacity to reshape the way soft-ware is developed. They believe that it is possible to move much further in the direction of automated reasoning techniques. The goal of machine programming is to remove the burden of writing correct code from a human programmer and to place it on a machine. The end of Dennard scaling means that performanceimprovements now come through increases in the complexity of the hardware. There is a growing need for people with core expertise outside of computer science to program, whether for the purpose of data collection and analysis, or just to gain some control over the growing set of digitaldevices permeating daily life. We discuss the three technical pillars: intention, (ii) invention, and (iii)adaptation. The Three Pillars of Machine Programming are: intention, influence, and invention. Intention is the most important pillar, followed by Influence and Invention. The Influence pillar is the one most influenced by the system listed in the corresponding SystemColumn. The Research Area column includes subdomains of research for the given pillar. The System column includes a non-exhaustive list of systems for that subdomain. The Invention pillar is used for the invention and adaptation pillar sections of the table. The three Pillars are: Intention, Influence, and Inventions. Invention emphasizes the creation or refinement of algo-rithms or core hardware and software building blocks. For program construction, invention usually involves generating the series of steps that a machine would have to execute to fulfill a user’s intent. In many instances, however, invention will be accomplished by identifying how to combine and adapt known data structures and algorithmic primitives to solve a particular problem. Both the program synthesis and the machine learning communities have made notable progress in this space in recent years. See Table 2 for highlights of existing research in the space of invention. discover complex bit-level manipulation routines that wereconsidered intractable only a few years earlier. In the case of string manipulations, program synthesis is now robust enough to ship as part of commercial products (e.g. Flashfill                in Excel [32]). There are fundamental limitations to the recent program synthesis approach to invention. By focusing on a narrow class of parameterized functions, machine-learning techniques are able to support search spaces that are larger than what the aforementioned techniques can support. Deep learning can be seen as a form of constraint-based synthesis. One of the open challenges in this space is to develop systems that can solve large-scale invention challenges. This includes solving problems at the scale of an ACM programming competition or a collegiate programming course. It also includes reasoning at a high-level ofabstraction about how those building blocks fit together, and then reasoning at the code level in a targeted fashion. See Table 3 for highlights of existing research in the space of adaptation.. The Bayou project uses a more sophisticated network architecture to learn much more complex conditional distributions, allowing it to automatically determine, for example, how to use Java and Android APIs. -Adapting Linear                –                Algebra Algorithms all the way to the language level, allowing the program-ipientmer to explicitly provide implementation choices throughout the code. replacing all compiler heuristics with reinforcementlearning to discover close to optimal implementations. Machine learning can be used to enhance current current bug detection techniques and to generate more sophisticated corrections for larger classes of bugs. Future directions include the addi-tional incorporation of machine learning into new web-services and upgrading new versions of web- APIs and web-based applications. The Three Pillars of Machine Programming are: adaptation, adaptation, and invention. The interplay between the three pillars is the key to understanding machine programming systems. We expect this interplay to expose a tension between features of a tool that are supportive of the needs of any given pillar and those that are disruptive to theneeds of the other pillars. We envision the eventual development of systems that continuously monitor program execution, incorporate user feedback, and learn from large code repos-itories to deliver a system of autonomous and continuous program correction and improvement. Large version control repositories, such as GitHub, offer the promise of access to all the code necessary to build and run a project. The code available in these public repositories has grown exponentially over the last several years and show no indication of stopping. There is a wide spec-trum in terms of the quality of the data that a project might use. We discuss some of these emerging data uses and issues for the remainder of this section. We conclude with an overview of some of the key issues facing machine programming systems in the coming years and beyond. We envision a future where computers will participate directly in the creation of software. This willfundamentally change how we write software. There are numerous open problems that must be solved to make machine programming a practical reality. It will take a large community of researchers years of hard work to solve this problem. If we can agree on a conceptualframework to organize this research, it will help us advance the field and more quickly bring us to a world where every-                one programs computers; on human-terms with machine-based algorithms. We call this framework the three pillars of machine programming. In Papers Presented at the February 26-28, 1957, Western Joint Computer.Conference: Techniques for Reliability (IRE-AIEE-ACM ’57 (Western.ACM) Gerald Baumgartner, David E. Bernholdt, Daniel Cociorva, Robert J.Harrison, So Hirata, Chi-Chung Lam, Marcel Nooijen, Russell M. Pitzer, J. Ramanujam, and P. Sadayappan. A high-level approach to. high-performance codes for quantum chemistry. The FORTRAN Automatic Coding System. The paper is based on a paper by Swarat Chaudhuri and Armando Solar-Lezama in 2010. The paper is also based on an article by Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, and Dawn Song in 2017. It is published in the open-access journal arXiv.Xiv:1704.06611 and can be downloaded for free at: http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01284/arXiv-1706-01284-ARXIV.html. Parsing a Neural Semantic Parser from User Feedback. Synthesis of Domain Specific CNF Encoders for Bit- Vector Solvers. Verified Lifting of Stencil Computations. The Learned Index Structures for Theoretical and Practical Parsing. A Probabilistic Programming Language for Program Induction. A Neural TuringMachines. CoRR abs/1410.5401 (2014). arXiv.org/abs/14 10.5400 (2014) The Learned Learned Index for theoretically andpractically Parsing (LSTM) is an open-source, free-to-use software. A map of DéjàVu: a map of code duplicates on GitHub. A new way of learning to Optimize: Bayesian Sketch Learning for Program Synthesis. A way of applying systematic edits: Generating Program Transformations from an Example. An alternative way of solving problems in programming languages: Typestate-based syntactic analysis. A more general way of looking at code duplication on GitHub: DéJàVU: A map of duplicate code on GitHub, a new way to look at code duplicate on GitHub; and a way of finding duplicates. The Three Pillars of Machine Programming. MIT Labs, MIT, 2018. The ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation, PLDI ’14, Edinburgh, United Kingdom, June 09 - 11, 2014. FlashMeta: a frame-driven. synthesis for inductive program synthesis. In Proceedings of the 2015. ACM. SIGPLan International Conference on Object-Oriented Program-. Systems, Languages, and Applications, OOPSLA 2015, part of. the. PPLASH 2015, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, October 25-30, 2015, 107–126. In this article we look at some of the most recent developments in the field of programming languages. We also look at the impact of the rise of the programming language "Big Code" and how it has changed the way we think about programming. We conclude with a look back at the history of the development of the language and its use in the software industry. We end with a discussion of the current state of the art in programming languages and their use in computer science and software engineering. We hope that this article will be of interest to readers of this blog. The ACM/IEEE Conference on Supercomputing is held in Orlando, FL, USA, November 7-13, 1998. The ACM International.Symposium on New Ideas, New Paradigms, and Reflections on Program.-riddenming and Software (Onward! 2016). ACM, New York, NY, USA,. 98–111. The conference is open-source and free to the public. For more information on the conference, visit: http://www.acm.org/international/symposiums/new-ideas-and-new-paradigms. www.usenix.org/conference/nsdi17/technical-sessions/presentation/zheng-zheng.html. For more information, visit: http://nsdi.org.org/. For more details on the NDSI conference, visit http://www.ndsi.org and the NDSi conference website: http:www.nsdic Conferences.com/conference-and-researchers/nssi-conferences/ntsi-conference-and receiving-the-senior-notes.php.